# Prediction of the Bioactivity of Chemical Compounds Using Long Short-Term Memory Recurrent Neural Network

This repository contains the source code to reproduce the results of the project carried out to predict the bioactivity of chemical compound. This work presents the prediction model for bioactivity of chemical compounds using Long Time Short Memory Recurrent Neural Network. The dataset of chemical compounds was curated and downloaded from chembl database. In the data preprocessing,  interested columns from the dataset such as molecule_chembl_id, canonical_smiles, standard_value were selected and standard value was used to generate the class label of chemical compounds. The active class is a chemical compound the its standard value is between the range of 0 and 1000, intermediate class between 1001 and 10,000 and inactive class from 10,001 upward. 
The LSTM RNN architecture developed for the model consist of input layer with an embedding dimension of 64, the hidden layer which is the LSTM RNN with a hidden units of 32 neurons and a fully connected output layer of 64 neurons which used ReLU activation function. The final output layer used a sigmoid activation function for the prediction. 10 epochs, 0.001 learning rate and 32 batches was used in the training process. Furthermore, Adam was used for the optimization of the training process and binary cross entropy was used for the loss function. A total of 4620 instance of chemical compound with a splitting ratio 80:20 was parsed into the developed model and the result of the prediction was evaluated. The evaluation metrics used in the work are True Positive TP, True Negative TN, False Positive FP, False Negative FN, precision, recall, f1 score and accuracy.
.
